So now let us discuss how many types of time outs are there.
So basically there are three types of tumors, the one short timers, the periodic timers and the exponential
backoff timers.
So now let me discuss briefly regarding each one of these.
So once your time outs are those which are fired are triggered only once.
For example, your application wants to delete some something acts after 10 seconds.
Right.
So your timer will trigger.
And after 10 seconds, your timer fires and it delete some data structure acts from the application.
Right.
Another example would be to send some terminate request after 10 seconds from now.
So these timers are called one short timers because they are triggered and fired only once.
Right.
Once your time are used in the scenarios where your application needs to do some work only once in future.
Contrary to these periodic timers, are those where some even need to be triggered periodically in future?
Right.
For example, you want to write an application, would send out some hollow packets at an interval of
five seconds.
Right.
So, for example, you should call and start the time at a time.
Ts equal to zero then at time physical to file your application will send out a hello packet.
Then at time t is equal to turn your application will again send out another packet and so on.
So these type of timer switch files periodically at regular intervals of time are called periodic timers.
Exponential backoff time outs are a special case of periodic timers in which the time outs are triggered
at exponentially pleased.
Temporal Point's example would be that you want your application to send some Gretry event at time d
equal to one then had time to go to two.
Then at times these were two, four, eight, 16, 32, 64 and so on.
Right.
So instead of using regular intervals like periodic timers, exponential backoff timers use exponentially
pleased temporal points within time space to send out or to trigger events.
So TCAP is one well-known protocol which depends on which uses exponential backoff algorithm and it
uses exponential backoff timers to implement its backoff algorithm.
So we were going to use Linux and built APIs to create timers and use those to implement all three types
of timers as listed above.
Right.
These Linux enabled APIs will provide us the basic foundations regarding how to implement a timeline
and then we will build up from there to design the time a library which will give the developer the
full control over timer's.